ClientTransport for New South WalesINSPECTION AND TEST PLAN FOR:
R106 Sprayed Bituminous Surfacing (with Cutback Bitumen)
Work Area:Contract No.#ContractInspection and Test Plan Number / Lot No:Workplace NameA183 - New Dubbo BridgeITC-16 R106 Sprayed Bituminous Surfacing (with Cutback Bitumen)
Legend:W = WitnessH = HoldS = SurveillanceACPL = AbergeldieS/C = SubcontractorActivity No.#DescriptionDocument Reference / Applicable StandardAcceptance CriteriaFrequency/ Process HeldInspection – Sign & DateVerifying RecordsS/CACPLClientDate1. Material Requirements1.1Bituminous MaterialsR106 Cl 2.1
Provide documentary evidence of the binder conformity for each delivery used in the work. Also
sample at the point of delivery and provide a representative sample of the delivered binder to the
Principal.

Do not heat binder above 190oC or the manufacturer’s written recommendations, whichever is the
lesser.

Implement procedures for storage and handling of binder that ensure prevention of segregation and
contamination of the binder by flushing liquids or other materials.
Once / Prior to supply of Bituminous MaterialsSSEvidence of Conformity1.2Aggregate Precoating Agent and Bitumen Adhesion AgentR106 Cl 2.2

TfNSW 3258

TfNSW 3259Aggregate precoating agents must conform to Specification TfNSW 3258.

Bitumen adhesion agents must conform to Specification TfNSW 3259.Once / Prior to supply of aggregate precoating agent and bitumen adhesion agentSSCertificate of Conformity1.3AggregateR106 Cl 2.4

TfNSW 3151
Obtain test results for each Lot of aggregate, in accordance with TfNSW 3151, before aggregate from
the Lot is incorporated in the Works. 

When requested, provide a sample to the Principal from the same Lot by riffling or quartering your own samples. The amount of material obtained for each sample must be in accordance with the nominal size of the aggregate as per AS 1141.3.
Once / Prior to supply of aggregatesSSTest Results1.4General Materials and Design of Bituminous
SurfacingR106 Cl 3Carry out the design of bituminous surfacing in accordance with TfNSW Form 395A or TfNSW Form
395K as appropriate and submit the design details including all results from texture testing for reseals
and ball embedment tests for seals. Design application rates are the "nominated application rates" and
materials used for the design are the "nominated materials".Once / Prior to placementSSTfNSW Form 395A/K1.5Submission of Nominated DesignR106 Cl 3.3Submit to the Principal the nominated design together with certification for the nominated materials at
least seven days prior to the commencement of sprayed bituminous surfacing works.

Include the following details in the submission:

(a) Each constituent material;
(b) Verification of conformity of the nominated materials;
(c) Endorsement.Once / Prior to placementSSDesign Certificate1.6Sealing Operations using Proposed DesignR106 Cl 3.3.3Submit to the principal Documents referred to in Clause 1.2.4 (Project Quality Plan) and the proposed bituminous surfacing design together with certification for the nominated materials and design verification documentation at least seven days prior to the commencement of sprayed bituminous surfacing work.Once / 7 working days prior to commencement of sprayed bitumous surfacing workHHProject Quality Plan 

Design Verification Documents1.7Review of Nominated Application RatesR106 Cl 3.4
Submit to the principal the below prior to spray sealing works for each work location:

Select the locations where each Lot of aggregate is to be incorporated in the Works.

Review the bituminous surfacing design at each location based on the actual ALD test result for the
actual aggregate to be used instead of the ALD value of the nominated aggregate and using the
appropriate TfNSW 395 design form. The revised application rates are “target application rates”.

Once / Prior to spray sealing worksHHAggregate Lot Details

Target Application Rates2. Process Control2.1Application of Sprayed Bituminous SurfacingR106 Cl 4.2Carry out sprayed bituminous surfacing so as to:

(a) provide a uniform application of binder with adequate adhesion to the underlying surface;
(b) provide a uniform cover of aggregate particles (except for primes); and
(c) achieve effective bond between binder and aggregate (except for primes).Once / Prior to ApplicationSSProject Quality Plan2.2Process Control ChartR106 Cl 4.3Use process control charts, as shown in Annexure R106/E, for binder application rate for work where
10 or more sprayer runs greater than 1,000 litres are required. You may develop additional process
control charts for the purpose of managing job specific risk(s) to quality. The process control charts
must show the specified tolerances and plot the differences of individual results from the target value.

Take corrective action if any point is between 2% and 5% (inclusive) above or below the target over 5
successive runs.Once / Prior to Lot ClosureSSProcess Control Chart2.3Work RecordsR106 Cl 4.4Record the particulars of the work performed on TfNSW Form 500A or 500C (as appropriate).

Record details of primer, primerbinder, binder and aggregate applied immediately after every sprayer
run. Each form must be signed by your representative as a true record of the work performed. Supply
the principal with a copy of each completed form.Once / Prior to Lot ClosureSSTfNSW Form 500A/C3. Conditions for Commencement3.1Preparation of Pavement SurfaceR106 Cl 5.2Before the application of primer, primerbinder or binder, sweep the pavement surface using a
rotary road broom or suction broom to provide a uniformly clean surface. If necessary, carry out additional sweeping by hand, using stiff bass or similar brooms. Sweeping must extend at least
300 mm beyond each edge of the area to be sprayed.

Where sealing work is carried out on localised areas and/or half pavement widths, remove any
remaining loose material from the pavement surface immediately adjacent to the swept areas.

Remove adherent patches of foreign material from the surface of the pavement. Mask or remove
raised pavement markers.

Measure and record pavement temperatures at regular intervals during work.

Place a spirit or mercury-in-glass thermometer or other suitable type of thermometer in direct
contact with the pavement.

Undertake the spraying of primers, primerbinders and binders only if the pavement temperature has
been at or above 10ºC for at least one hour before commencement of spraying and does not fall below the specified minimum pavement temperature for spraying during the period of spraying.

Do not spray wet pavement or while rain appears imminent or during strong winds or dust storms.Once / Prior to applicationSSVisual Inspection4. Application of Sprayed Sealing, Binder and Aggregates4.1Application of Sprayed Bituminous SurfacingR106 Cl 6
Apply primer, primerbinder and binder by using a sprayer. The sprayer must have a current Sprayer
Certificate (TfNSW Form 354) issued or accepted by Transport for NSW.

Bitumen must be within the temperature range shown in Table R106.2 when cutter oil is incorporated.










Cutback bitumen must be within the temperature range shown in Table R106.3 at the time of spraying.


























Once / Prior to Application of Spray SealSSTfNSW Form 3544.2Incorporation of Cutter Oil, Flux Oil and Bitumen Adhesion AgentR106 Cl 6.7Determine and record the proportion of cutter oil required for each sprayer load, using TfNSW Form
382 for seals and reseals and TfNSW Form 395A for primes and primerseals.

Where flux oil is to be included, add it to the bitumen in the sprayer and circulate the mixture at a rate
of at least 700 litres per minute for fifteen minutes before spraying.

Where bitumen adhesion agent is to be included, add it to the bitumen in the sprayer and circulate the
mixture at a rate of at least 700 litres per minute for fifteen minutes before spraying.
Once / Prior to incorporation of cutter oil, flux oil and adhesion agentSSTfNSW Form 382

TfNSW Form 395A4.3Application of Primer, Primerbinder and BinderR106 Cl 7
Limit the area to be sprayed with primerbinder or binder to the area that can be covered with aggregate
at the target application rate within fifteen minutes of spraying bitumen or cutback bitumen.

The class and grade of primer and primerbinder must be as specified in Annexure R106/A.

Apply nominated and target application rates and quantities of primer and primerbinder to the whole
material, including cutter oil, measured at 15ºC.

After application of a primer, a period of at least 48 hours, or such longer period as determined to be
necessary for the primer to become completely dry, must elapse before the binder for a seal is applied.
Keep all traffic off the primed surface.

Where bitumen adhesion agent and/or cutter oil have been added to the binder, adjust the application
rate of the total binder at 15ºC, using TfNSW Form 500A,

The class of bitumen or grade of cutback bitumen must be as specified in Annexure R106/A.

Base nominated and target application rates and quantities of binder on the volumes of bitumen
measured at a temperature of 15ºC and do not include any bitumen adhesion agent and/or cutter oil. If
flux oil has been added to the bitumen, include the quantity of flux oil as part of the binder.

Where bitumen adhesion agent and/or cutter oil have been added to the binder, adjust the application
rate of the total binder at 15ºC to allow for the quantities of bitumen adhesion agent and/or cutter oil in
the mixture.

Determine the hot application rate of total binder, including bitumen adhesion agent and/or cutter oil,
using TfNSW Form 382.

Where refinery cutback bitumen is used as the binder, increase the target application rate of binder to
allow for the cutter oil in the mixture in accordance with Table R106.4.
Once / Prior to application of primer, primerbinder and binderSSTfNSW Form 500A / TfNSW Form 3824.4Application and Incorporation of AggregateR106 Cl 8Use only precoated aggregate for seals and primerseals.

Apply the aggregate of the specified nominal size and at the target aggregate application rate.

The method to determine the actual aggregate spread rate must conform to Test Method TfNSW T274 or a method approved by the Principal and detailed in the PROJECT QUALITY PLAN.

Report the aggregate spread rate as actual rate using TfNSW Form 500C.

After the aggregate has been applied to each section of the work, carry out initial rolling with two or
more dual axle smooth pneumatic tyred multi-wheel rollers of mass greater than 7 tonnes without
ballast and minimum tyre pressure of 550 kPa. Continue initial rolling until the aggregate is firmly
embedded in the primerbinder or binder.

Roll the cover aggregate with pneumatic tyred multi-wheel rollers at not less than eight passes within
one hour of spraying at every point on the surface.Once / Prior to incorporation of aggregateSSTfNSW Form 500C

Project Quality Plan4.5Sweeping and Loose Aggregate Removal (10mm and 14mm Seals / Reseals Only)R106 Cl 9After final sweeping and prior to the work being opened to traffic at the pre-existing signposted speed,
the number of loose aggregate particles (per m2) not including aggregate particles from any scatter
coat, determined in accordance with Test Method TfNSW T277 must not exceed the values shown in Table R106.5:







Areas where speed limits exceed 60 km/h and that are opened to traffic prior to final sweeping must
have temporary speed zone ‘loose stones’ and ‘slippery’ warning signs and temporary 60 km/h speed
zoning in place until the maximum allowable loose aggregate requirement is met.

Notify the principle of the time and location prior to commencement of final sweeping and loose aggregate measurements prior to opening to traffic. Once / Prior to Lot ClosureWWVisual Inspection
REVIEW BY PROJECT MANAGERAny non-conformances? YES  NONos: Closed Out  YES  NOAll work has been satisfactorily completed.  YES  NOName SignatureDate
INSPECTION TEST PLAN

PM009-F02DOCUMENT UNCONTROLLED WHEN PRINTEDIssue Date: Aug/2016Page 1 of 1

