ClientTransport for New South WalesINSPECTION AND TEST PLAN FOR:
R33 Trench Drains (Pavement Subsoils)
Work Area:Contract No.#ContractInspection and Test Plan Number / Lot No:Workplace NameA183 - New Dubbo BridgeITC-09 R33 Trench Drains
Legend:W = WitnessH = HoldS = SurveillanceACPL = AbergeldieS/C = SubcontractorActivity No.#DescriptionDocument Reference / Applicable StandardAcceptance CriteriaFrequency/ Process HeldInspection – Sign & DateVerifying RecordsS/CACPLClientDate1. Preliminary Works1.1IFC Drawings are CurrentPavement IFC DrawingsUse of latest revision of approved Issued for Construction (IFC) Drawings.
Any changes in design, RFI was raised and approved:
RFI_________Once / Prior to ConstructionSSPavements IFC Drawing1.2Underlying lot conformingSurvey Report
Underlying/Preceding lot is conforming prior to commencement including survey levels of underlying lotOnce / Prior to ConstructionSSTest Results / Survey Report2. Material Compliance2.1Corrugated Drainage Pipe and Rigid Strip Filter DrainR33 Cl 2.1Corrugated plastic drainage pipe (both perforated and non-perforated) must comply with Specification TfNSW 3552. Caps and other fittings must be in accordance with the manufacturer’s recommendations.

Seamless tubular filter fabric for use with corrugated perforated plastic drainage pipe must comply with
Specification TfNSW 3553.

Rigid strip filter drain must comply with Specification TfNSW 3556.Once / Submitted to principal 7 prior to useSSCompliance Records2.2GeotextileR33 Cl 2.2Geotextile must comply with specification TfNSW R63.

Geotextile for wrapping around rigid strip filter drain must be non-woven geotextile of Strength Class AOnce / Submitted to principal 7 prior to useSSCompliance Records2.3No Fines Concrete and Aggregate Filter Material R33 Cl 2.3
TfNSW 3580
D&C 3222 Cl 6No fines concrete must be Grade NFC SD complying with Specification TfNSW 3222

Aggregate filter material must comply with Specification TfNSW 3580 and the Drawings for the aggregate type.

Detail the mixing plant and delivery vehicles 
Once / Submitted to principal 7 prior to useHHMix Design & delivery methodology / Compliance Records2.4Selected MaterialR33 Cl2.4Select Material must meet the requirements of Specification TfNSW R44. Select material at batter outlet and at the transverse outlets of pavements interface drains must, in addition, have a maximum particle size not exceeding 50mm.

Selected fill material for the plug used in staged construction must have a maximum particle size not exceeding 20mm and PI not exceeding 12.
Once / Submitted to principal 7 prior to useSSCompliance Records3. Construction 3.1Order of ConstructionR33 Cl 3.1Where trench drains are to be installed in embankment foundations, construct the trench drains after completion of clearing, stripping and general excavation operations, but preceding the commencement of embankment construction adjacent to the trench drain.

If trench drains are required in cuttings, construct the trench drains as soon as practicable following completion of earthworks.

Where the top of earthworks is to be stabilised, construct the trench drains after completion of stabilisation.

Where excessive ground water is encountered, trench drains may be installed prior to stabilisation if approved by the principal.During constructionSSN/A3.2ExcavationR33 Cl 3.2Unless otherwise specified, the bottom of the trench must be at the same grade as the roadway. Where the grade of the roadway is less than 0.5%, provide minimum grade of 0.5% by increasing the depth of the trench.

Excavated material must either be stockpile or incorporated in the works or disposed of in accordance with R44.During constructionSSSurvey Report3.3Geotextile InstallationR33 Cl 3.3When installing geotextile, do not allow loose material from the trench walls or outside the trench to enter the excavation.

Keep all geotextiles clean and secure the geotextile to ensure that they are located as shown on the drawings on completion of backfill.During constructionSSVisual Inspection3.4Laying of PipeR33 Cl 3.4Lay the pipe in the centre of the trench on a bed of filter material 100mm thick to the required line and grade as shown on the drawing.

Keep the number of joints in the pipeline to the minimum and connect the pipes using coupling complying with the manufacturers recommendations.

Where an inlet into the trench drain is provided at a stormwater pit, the invert level of the inlet must be above the hydraulic grade line of the pit and as close to the underside of the pavement layer as possible.

Cap the upstream end of buried pipes where the upstream end of the pipe is enclosed within filter material and is not connected to a stormwater pit.

Where the filter material around the pipe is Grade F5 or F7 aggregate filter material (refer TfNSW 3580),
(a) for corrugated perforated plastic drainage pipe, install a seamless tubular filter fabric around the pipe;
(b) for rigid strip filter drain, wrap the strip filter drain with non-woven geotextile of Strength Class A. The
geotextile must encapsulate the rigid strip filter and be joined by heat or an electrically generated
welding process.
During ConstructionSSVisual Inspection3.5BackfillingR33 Cl 3.5

TfNSW 3222 Cl 7.1Compact the filter material to its full depth to avoid post-construction consolidation and to provide an even surface at the same level as the adjacent material.

Verification that pipe laying, jointing and bedding are complete and conforming.

At the end of each days production, total up the individual masses of cement and aggregates using in the days production of no fines concrete, and provide these details to the principal
BackfillingHHVisual Inspection4. Outlets and Marking4.1Outlets at Stormwater Drainage StructuresR33 Cl 4.2Where the outlet of the trench drain is at a stormwater pit or other stormwater drainage structure, the height of the pipe invert above the base of the trench drain must taper from 100 mm to zero within the end 5 metres from the outlet.

Where a trench drain is one without a pipe, provide 10 m of corrugated perforated plastic pipe immediately upstream of the outlet and taper the height of the pipe invert as described above to facilitate discharge of water. Fit the upstream end of the pipe with a suitable cap to prevent entry of material.Installation of Outlets at Stormwater Drainage StructuresSSVisual Inspection4.2Outlets at BattersR33 Cl 4.3Where it is not possible to connect the trench drain to a stormwater pit or other stormwater drainage structure, construct an outlet at the batter to discharge water beyond the edge of the road shoulder.

The outlet pipe must be of the same type and size as those in the trench drain but must be non-perforated for the length extending beyond the edge of the pavement.

Lay the non-perforated section of pipe at the base of the trench. Taper the height above the base of the trench of the connecting section of perforated pipe, from zero to 100 mm, over a 2 m length.
Backfill the trench along this section of pipe with Selected Material of maximum particle size of 50 mm, and compacted to a relative compaction of 95% as determined by Test Method TfNSW T166.

Construct a batter outlet structure at the discharge end in accordance with the Drawings. Locate the outlet so that erosion of the adjacent area does not occur or protect the outlet by placing selected stone in the splash zone.Installation of Outlets at BattersSSVisual Inspection4.3MarkingR33 Cl 6During construction, physically mark out on site the inlets and outlets of the subsurface drains, to avoid damage to them during construction.Marking of Outlets and InletsSSProject Quality Plan
REVIEW BY PROJECT MANAGERAny non-conformances? YES  NONos: Closed Out  YES  NOAll work has been satisfactorily completed.  YES  NOName SignatureDate
INSPECTION TEST PLAN

PM009-F02DOCUMENT UNCONTROLLED WHEN PRINTEDIssue Date: Aug/2016Page 1 of 1

