ClientTransport for New South WalesINSPECTION AND TEST PLAN FOR:
R15 Kerb and Gutter
Work Area:Contract No.#ContractInspection and Test Plan Number / Lot No:Workplace NameA183 - New Dubbo BridgeITC-07 R15 Kerb and Gutters
Legend:W = WitnessH = HoldS = SurveillanceACPL = AbergeldieS/C = SubcontractorActivity No.#DescriptionDocument Reference / Applicable StandardAcceptance CriteriaFrequency/ Process HeldInspection – Sign & DateVerifying RecordsS/CACPLClientDate1. Preliminary Works1.1IFC Drawings are CurrentPavement IFC DrawingsUse of latest revision of approved Issued for Construction (IFC) Drawings.
Any changes in design, RFI was raised and approved:
RFI_________Once / Prior to ConstructionSSPavements IFC Drawing1.2Underlying lot conformingSurvey Report
Underlying/Preceding lot is conforming prior to commencement including survey levels of underlying lot and K&C Subgrade Once / Prior to ConstructionSSTest Results / Survey Report1.3Concrete Mix DesignR53 Cl 2.4.1

R53 Annexure R53/E

R15 Cl 2.2
Concrete Mix Design approved by client

25mpa – 15 – 25mm slump – max. nom aggregate 10mmOnce / prior to constructionHHConcrete Mix Design2. Construction 2.1Survey Set outQMPSurvey set out as per design drawingsOnce / Prior to PlacementSSSet out Report2.2Placement of ConcreteR53 Cl 3.3.1Provide 2 working days’ notice to client of expected completion of preparation and expected commencement date and time of concrete placement
Once / Prior to PlacementHHHP Submission2.3Concrete SamplingR53 Cl 4.1

AS1379Slump:

Perform slump tests on each strength sample

Strength:

Each grade at a plant shall be sampled at a frequency of at least one sample per 100 m3 of
that grade produced except that, for Grade 20 concrete when 15 or more samples per month
are obtained, the frequency may be reduced.
Prior to PlacementSSSlump Results

Strength Results2.4Concrete and Air TempR53 Cl 3.3.2Do not place concrete during rain or when air temperature in the shade is below 5oC or above 35oCPrior to pouring each loadSSPour Record2.5JointsR15 Cl 2.6

R15 cl 3.8Joint sealant must be silicone sealant conforming to Specification TfNSW R83. 

Form and prepare joints in conformity to AS 2876.

Shrinkage Control Joints:
Spaced every 2.3 to 3m.
Constructed by guillotining extruded work. Min 50% of the area of the section shall be cut. Resultant slot to be tooled to a depth of not less than 20mm to provide a groove of not less than 5mm in width. 

Construction Joints:
For Machine placed concrete, the last section of poorly formed or compacted concrete is to be removed while still plastic. Approx. 300mm. Leave suitable square face.
Immediately prior to placing further concrete, the contact face shall be covered by a thin coat of cement water paste of creamy consistency. A Construction joint shall not be used to replace a shrinkage control joint.
Once / prior to placement of concreteSSChecklist2.6CuringR53 Cl 3.4.3Apply curing compound to unform surfaces immediately after the surface is firm and free of bleed water

Apply curing compound at the rate specified by the manufacturer

Apply two coats when necessary to ensure complete and uniform coverage. The time between the first and second coat must be in accordance with the manufacturer’s recommendation.

During application, implement measures to prevent the curing compound drifting away from the target concrete surface and deposited on adjacent surfaces.

Maintain the curing membrane intact until at least seven days have elapsed after concrete placement
Once / prior to placement of concreteHHChecklist2.7Concrete FinishR15 Cl 3.9Unless otherwise shown in the drawings, provide a steel float finish to channel inverts and faces of kerb and broomed finish to vehicular crossing and ramps. Brooming must be transverse to the direction of travel.

Protect the concrete surface from rain during and after surface finishing and until final set.Once / Prior to SurveySSVisual Inspection

Project Quality Plan3. Conformity3.1ConformityR15 Cl 4All finished surfaces must conform to the lines, levels, grades, thicknesses and cross sections shown on the Drawings within the specified tolerances.

The tolerances stated in AS 2876 for irregularities in the bedding layer, level of the bedding layer, horizontal alignment, level, deviation from a 3 m straightedge, deviation on vertical curves, and profile dimensions also apply, except that the level of the constructed channel lip must not vary by more than 0 mm above or 10 mm below the adjoining pavement surface at any point.

Frequency of conformity testing as per Annexure R15/L (see below):



During concrete deliverySSConcrete Docket 

Survey Report

Concrete Pour Record
REVIEW BY PROJECT MANAGERAny non-conformances? YES  NONos: Closed Out  YES  NOAll work has been satisfactorily completed.  YES  NOName SignatureDate
INSPECTION TEST PLAN

PM009-F02DOCUMENT UNCONTROLLED WHEN PRINTEDIssue Date: Aug/2016Page 1 of 1

