ClientTransport for New South WalesINSPECTION AND TEST PLAN FOR:
R53 Concreting General
Work Area:Contract No.#ContractInspection and Test Plan Number / Lot No:Workplace NameA183 - New Dubbo BridgeITC-04 R53 Concrete for General Works
Legend:W = WitnessH = HoldS = SurveillanceACPL = AbergeldieS/C = SubcontractorActivity No.#DescriptionDocument Reference / Applicable StandardAcceptance CriteriaFrequency/ Process HeldInspection – Sign & DateVerifying RecordsS/CACPLClientDate1. Material Compliance1.1Submission of Nominated MixesR53 Cl 2.4.3Where the nominated mix(es) has had production assessment carried out in accordance with AS 1379
Clause 6.3, submit the production assessment report complying with AS 1379 Clause 6.4.2. Include a
statement from each material supplier certifying that the constituent materials meet the requirement of this Specification.Once / 5 working days prior to commencement of production of mixHHMix Design Report2. Construction2.1Notification of Concrete Placing and FinishingR53 Cl 3.3.1
At least 2 working days prior to the placing of concrete, provide notice of:

- Expected completion time of fixing of the formwork and reinforcement (if applicable) and;
- Expected commencement date and time of placement of concrete
Once / At least 2 working days prior to each placementHHHP Submission2.2Concrete and Air Temperature / RainR53 Cl 3.3.2

R53 Cl 3.3.3
Do not place concrete in the works if its temperature at the point of discharge is less than 10C and more than 32C.

Do not place concrete of the measured air temperature is below 5C or above 35C.

Do not place concrete during rain or when rain appears imminent.
Once / prior to concrete placementSSProject Quality Plan

Pour Record Sheet2.3Placing and Compacting
R53 Cl 3.3.4

Place concrete in such manner that:
(a) limit segregation or loss of materials;
(b) limit premature stiffening;
(c) produce a dense homogeneous product which is monolithic between joints and edges;
(d) provide the specified thickness and surface finish.

Carry out vibration in a regular and systematic manner to ensure that all the concrete is thoroughly compacted.

Where internal vibrators are used, they must have a minimum diameter of 50 mm with an operating frequency between 130 Hz and 200 Hz.During PlacementSSVisual Inspection 2.4Unformed Surface FinishR53 Cl 3.3.6
Finish unformed concrete surfaces in such manner that:
(a) achieve the specified dimensions, grade and surface texture;
(b) avoid plastic or drying shrinkage cracks.
During ConstructionSSVisual Inspection2.5JointsR53 Cl 3.3.9Roughen the surface of concrete at construction joints to expose the coarse aggregate. Wash clean the roughened surfaces and projecting reinforcement, and remove all excess water and loose material prior to placing the adjoining concrete.During ConstructionSSVisual Inspection2.6CuringR53 Cl 3.4
Apply curing compound to unform surfaces immediately after the surface is firm and free of bleed water

Apply curing compound at the rate specified by the manufacturer

Apply two coats hen necessary to ensure complete and uniform coverage. The time between the first and second coat must be in accordance with the manufacturer’s recommendation.

During application, implement measures to prevent the curing compound drifting away from the target concrete surface and deposited on adjacent surfaces.

Maintain the curing membrane intact until at least seven days have elapsed after concrete placement
During ConstructionSSProject Quality Plan2.7Mortar, Grout and Sprayed ConcreteR53 Cl 3.6Notify principal prior to placing of mortar, grout and sprayed concrete.Prior to placing Mortar, grout or sprayed concreteWWVisual Inspection3. Conformity3.1Sampling and Testing (Concrete)R53 Cl 4.1.1Slump:

Perform slump tests on each strength sample

Strength:

Each grade at a plant shall be sampled at a frequency of at least one sample per 100 m3 of
that grade produced except that, for Grade 20 concrete when 15 or more samples per month
are obtained, the frequency may be reduced.
Prior to PlacementSSSlump Results

Strength Results3.2CrackingR53 Cl 4.2At the end of the curing period, the concrete surface must have no unplanned cracks of width greater than 0.2 mm, measured at the concrete surface after completion of 21 days drying. Where such cracks exist, identify them as nonconformities.Once / Prior to Lot ClosureSSCrack Map3.3Dimensions and LevelsR53 Cl 4.3Dimensions and levels of surfaces constructed using fixed forms must be as shown on the Drawings or in the relevant Specification, and within the tolerances stated in AS 3610.1, unless specified otherwise on the Drawings or in the relevant Specification.

Dimensions and levels of unformed exposed surfaces, and surfaces constructed by slipforming or extrusion, must be as shown on the Drawings, and within the tolerances specified in the relevant Specification.Once / Prior to Lot ClosureSSSurvey Report
REVIEW BY PROJECT MANAGERAny non-conformances? YES  NONos: Closed Out  YES  NOAll work has been satisfactorily completed.  YES  NOName SignatureDate
INSPECTION TEST PLAN

PM009-F02DOCUMENT UNCONTROLLED WHEN PRINTEDIssue Date: Aug/2016Page 1 of 1

